['When', 'The problem with Huffman coding in the above message is that it can’t create codes with the exact information content required. In most cases it is a little above or a little below, leading to deviations information content required. from the optimum. But arithmetic', 'Lossy compression is fundamentally different from lossless compression in one respect: it accepts a slight loss of data to facilitate compression. Lossy compression is generally done on analog data slight loss of data to facilitate compression. stored digitally, with the primary applications', 'The Huffman Algorithm', 'It creates variable-length probabilities get shorter codes. codes that are an integral number of bits. Huffman codes have the unique prefix attribute,', 'Symbols with higher probabilities get shorter codes. attribute, which means they can be correctly decoded despite', 'Huffman codes have the unique prefix attribute, which means they can be correctly decoded despite being variable length. Decoding a stream of Huffman codes is generally done by following a binary being variable length. decoder tree.', 'Decoding a stream of Huffman codes is generally done by following a binary decoder tree.', 'The symbol with the with the lowest probability, highest probability, A, has been assigned the fewest bits, and the symbol with the lowest probability, E, has been assigned the most bits. E, has been assigned the most bits.', 'Arithmetic Coding', 'Arithmetic Coding:', 'Arithmetic coding bypasses the idea of replacing an a stream of input symbols with a single floating-point input symbol with a specific code. It replaces a stream of input symbols with a single floating-point output number. More bits are needed in the output number for longer, complex messages. This output number. More bits are needed in the output number for longer, complex messages. This concept has been known for some time, but only recently were practical methods found to implement concept has been known for some time, but only recently were practical methods found to implement arithmetic coding on computers with fixed-sized registers. arithmetic coding on computers with fixed-sized registers. The output from an arithmetic coding process is a single number less than 1 and greater than or equal 0. This single number can be uniquely decoded to create the exact stream of symbols that went to 0. This single number can be uniquely decoded to create the exact stream of symbols that went to into its construction. To construct the output number, the symbols are assigned a set probabilities. into its construction. The message “BILL', 'The message “BILL GATES,” for', 'Difficulties Huffman codes have to be an integral number of bits long, and this can sometimes be a problem. the probability of a character is 1/3, for example, the optimum number of bits to code that character', 'To construct the output number, the symbols are assigned a set probabilities. GATES,” for example, would have a probability distribution like this:', 'appearance. Note that the character “owns” everything up to, but not including, the higher number. So the letter T in fact has the range .90 to .9999… So the letter T in fact has the range .90 to .9999…', 'Applying this logic will further restrict our number this for a message of any length is shown here: to .25 to .26.', 'The algorithm to accomplish this for a message of any length is shown here:', 'Given this encoding scheme, it is relatively easy to see how the decoding process operates. first symbol in the message by seeing which symbol owns the space our encoded message', 'Practical Matters', 'the encoding process is simply one of narrowing the range of possible numbers with symbol. The new range is proportional to the predefined probability attached to that every new symbol. symbol. Decoding', 'What is required is an incremental transmission Floating-point math is neither required nor helpful. What is required is an incremental transmission scheme in which fixed-size integer state variables receive new bits at the low end and shift them out at the high end, forming a single number that can be as long as necessary, conceivably millions or at the high end, forming a single number that can be as long as necessary, conceivably millions or at the high end, billions of bits.', 'When the algorithm first starts, the low number is set to 0 and range of the possible output number. When the algorithm first starts, the low number is set to 0 and the high number is set to 1. The first simplification made to work with integer math is to change the the high number is set to 1. The first simplification made to work with integer math is to change the 1 to .999 …, or .111… in binary. Mathematicians agree that .111… binary is exactly the same as 1 binary, and we take their assurance at face value. It simplifies encoding and decoding. binary, and we take their assurance at face value. It simplifies encoding and decoding.', 'To find the new range of numbers, apply the encoding algorithm from the previous section. First, To find the new range of numbers, apply the encoding calculate the range between the low and high values.', 'retained during But there is potential for a loss of precision under certain circumstances.', 'At this point, the calculated range will be only a single digit long, which will not have enough precision to be accurately encoded. Worse, after a few means the output word will not have enough precision to be accurately encoded.', 'The range between high and low has become so will leave high and low at their same values. But small that any iteration through another symbol will leave high and low at their same values.', 'Head off underflow with a slightly different shift operation. Instead of shifting the most significant digit out of the word, delete the second digits from high and low and shift the rest of the digits left digit out of the word, delete the second digits from high and low and shift the rest of the digits left to digit out of the fill the space. that we threw', 'When the most significant digits do finally converge to a single value, output that value. Then output When the most significant digits do finally converge to a single value, output that value. Then output the underflow digits previously discarded. The underflow digits will all be 9s or 0s, depending on whether high and low converged on the higher or lower value. In the C implementation of this whether high and low converged on the higher or lower value.']
